so
this week we started with
an introduction to static games and the
first thing we analyzed was
rationalizable behavior
so sort of
a short big picture summary of what we
did this week
is that
we want to move away from
individual choice theory to
game theory where
we have several players or several
strategic decision makers that interact
and
now we
formally model this interaction with a
game and the game
consists of the players who is
interacting the actions that are
available to each player and then
the utilities
that they obtain for each chosen action
profile so for each outcome that could
be realized from this game
and so the utilities we've seen several
examples could be the profit of a firm
in
an oligopoly it could be
one if we win in a game of rock paper
scissors or minus one if we lose um
and
any any payoffs um for the interaction
that captures the player's preferences
over outcomes
then it is important if we study game
theory that sort of
we make some underlying assumptions
about the players so the players they
are all aware of the game they know who
is in the game
and they're all rational
they all try to maximize their expected
utility function
now
this is the abstract model of the
interaction and then we need a way to
solve it
and this is done with a solution concept
now why do we need solution concepts
well
because we have these strategic
interactions there's no let's say unique
optimum like there is
or there's no clear
measure for optimality like there is in
a
single
uh agent decision problem
and different solution concepts that we
will consider they typically differ
based on the assumptions that we require
about the player's knowledge or their
beliefs
um so two examples that we have seen
this week is that if we assume no
knowledge of the players
we only assume that they're rational
then we have these
for example a strict dominant
equilibrium
so players don't need to know
what other players
whether they are rational or not um if
they have a strictly dominant strategy
they will choose it if they are rational
regardless of what they know about their
opponents
again a stronger assumption
that
we have looked at later is what if
players
rationality is common knowledge
so the players know
that every player is rational they know
that everybody knows that they are
rational and so on and then we obtain
the solution concept of
rationalizability
now next week we'll make even more
assumptions about what the players know
so for example um this will come next
week but
any nash equilibrium will assume that
players beliefs about
other
players behavior is correct so
and this just shows how again the
solution concept differs simply based on
what assumptions we impose on the
player's knowledge
now for those of you who
for which maybe conjectures was a little
bit difficult to grasp so i will go over
conjectures in more detail
but
i want to
show you some good news that is that
after next week we'll never have to deal
with correct conjectures again because
the player's beliefs will be correct in
equilibrium
but today we will
look first what can we say if we only
impose rationality and common knowledge
of rationality
are there any questions so far
let me see if i can see the chat here
oops
i'm not sure
how can i see
hmm
no i'm not sure if you see the chat
well
so if you have a question please do
speak up
now
we have seen two very related
sort of solution concepts so as i
mentioned here
rationalizability is the right solution
concept
but
iterated elimination of strictly
dominated strategies is maybe the more
intuitive solution concept the idea is
that
in each step
we eliminate strategies that are very
clearly so optimal so in this example
here that we've seen
choosing center for player two
is always a worse option than choosing
right
right because right gives two if player
one plays t where center gives only one
but right gives
six um
if player one chooses b where c only
gives four so
no matter what player one plays choosing
r is always a better response than
choosing c
then once we have eliminated c
if now
player 1 knows that player 2 is rational
then player 1 knows
player 2 will never never play c
now player 1 can make
an additional logical deduction player
one can now see okay
given that player two will never play c
i can now i can now have a strictly
dominant response which is t
because it's always better than b
and then player two knows that player 1
knows
that they are rational so they know that
player 1 can make this logical deduction
and then
player 2 will say okay if player 1 plays
t
then there's no point for me to play r
and i'll play i'll instead
so here we see that we needed second
order knowledge of rationality to come
at this conclusion here
is there any questions so far
and the procedure is concluded by at the
end looking at which mixed strategies
are undominated now in this case only
one pure strategy remains so that's the
only strategy that survives
now the problem with this intuitive
approach is that sometimes
the remaining strategies
that we get they are not necessarily
best responses to a conjecture
over the opponent's strategy profiles
that remain
so let's say we have common knowledge of
rationality and every player can now
figure out
the set of
strategies that survive iescs for each
other player
but somehow
some of those strategies here may not
actually be a best response to any
beliefs any conjectures we may have
about opponent strategies in this
remaining set
and this is why we want to sort of
fix or improve this procedure to the
procedure of rationalizability
so we wonder in each step
not what is clearly suboptimal but we
ask what is optimal
right so is it justifiable to play a
certain strategy for some conjecture
that i might have about
every other player
what they will play
and then in each step of the iteration
we keep those strategies with our best
response to a conjecture on
the strategies that remained in the
previous
iteration
so in this example here
what we what would we think so in the
first step i guess i should have
eliminated these uh
these strikeouts but in the first step
if we
try to use rationalizability then we
wouldn't wander or the sub-optimal we
would say
okay can we play l
that means is there
a
strategy by the opponent to which l is
the best response
and then if we see for the entire game l
is a best response
if player 1 plays t
and we see that r is a best response if
player 1 plays b
so they are both justified by some
conjecture and they will both remain
within the set at r1
similarly for
player 1 we can ask whether they are
justified by some conjecture
so if we believe their opponent plays l
then we best respond with t and if we
believe that player 2 will play c then
we best respond
with b
now the difficult part about
rationalizability is that
we should be doing this for mixed
strategies as well which mixed
strategies
are best responses
and this becomes very quickly very
difficult or very tedious
so we have two results that help us with
this procedure so that we don't have to
go through all these mixed strategies in
every step
so the first result is that in two
player games we can simply use iesdf
and the second result is that if we have
sufficiently nice concave utilities um
then
we only need to look at pure strategic
injectors and only at pure strategy best
responses and then iescs becomes quite
tractable
and we will see that typically if
there's finitely many actions
we want to use theorem 1.10 so we use
aesds
and
if there's a continuum of actions but
um utilities are sufficiently nice and
strictly concave then it's easier to use
zero 1.11 even in two-player games and i
will illustrate this
again the example of the queen or dwell
so this is sort of the big picture
rationalizability
is the right solution concept
conceptually but it is hard to apply so
we have these two results here that help
us
apply in
in practice
now
in
the questions on paul everywhere so the
most frequent question that i got was to
explain conjectures again and how
conjectures differ from
mixed strategies so i want to spend a
few minutes here discussing mixing and
mixing and conjectures again
so
let me
try to make sure that the notation is
clear so
we have these set of
pure actions for each player ai that are
sort of the set of all
fundamental choices the player can make
then an action profile
is
a vector
consisting of a pure action of each
player
and
so here this means that each component
comes from let's say first component
comes from a1 the second component from
a2 and the way we write the set of all
action profiles is with this direct
product here so we use here these
crosses
to indicate that this is a vector where
each component
from of the vector comes from these sets
and then we can
write this in a compact form also in
this way here so this big cross just
means we have lots of these small
crosses
where we they take the direct product of
the different sets of
your actions
then
with this delta here we denote the set
of all distributions over whichever set
is inside here in the parentheses so in
this case instead of all distributions
over
player i's pure actions
are all of player eyes mixed actions
this means a player can randomize
between the actions so can choose a
lottery between the pure actions where
one action is chosen with some
probability and another action with
some other probability
and so an example we have here so we
could say okay player 2 mixes with 50 50
between left and right
and player 1 chooses 50 50 between top
and down
and this makes each outcome equally
likely with one quarter each outcome
will be realized
now what are the
what is the set of all
mixed action profiles well
it's again a vector with a mixed action
by every player so it's an element of
this set here right all this means here
is that
it's a vector and each component comes
from delta a i
so this is the set of all mixed action
profiles
and this set is smaller
than the set of all distributions
over the set of all pure action profiles
so here is an example of a distribution
over all pure action profiles which is
not
which cannot arise from
a mixed action because
in a mixed action players
actions are always or the lotteries are
always realized independently of each
other
so
if we have independence then
the probability of each outcome is
simply the product of the probabilities
with which each player chooses that
mixed action or
with
the probability with which that action
is chosen by the player's mixed action
so here we have 50 times 50
and we see there is no such mixed action
that generates this outcome
right in order for
this outcome dr to never be realized
this means that either
player one chooses to you at zero
probability or player two chooses r with
zero probability
but if player one chooses d with zero
probability then this would be zero as
well or if player two chooses r with
zero probability then this would also
happen with zero probability
so this is a
distribution over
pure action profiles
that is not a mixed
um index strategy profile and so in
general
the whole point of this is that the set
of all distributions here is larger than
the set of mixed action profiles which
is why we use different notations
yeah so mixed action profile this
and all it means is that it's a vector
where each component comes from the set
of mixed actions of player i
then
the same notation applies to strategies
so
currently
as long as we're dealing with static
gains of complete information
the pure strategy is
the same as just a pure action we choose
an action exactly once
and so we can rewrite this all in terms
of strategies and the same applies
we have that the same of mixed
strategies is again a vector
where the consisting of a mixed strategy
of each player
so it's again
an element of this direct product here
which means that the mixed strategy of
player i comes from this set here
and again the set of all distributions
over strategy profiles is larger than
the set of all
mixed
strategy profiles
and then
we can move on to conjectures
so
a conjecture in a conjecture if i try to
think what will my opponents do
then i think okay minfang will
with 50 he will do this with 50 he'll do
something else and i think um hendrick
will do something with a certain
probability
and i will for my beliefs essentially
about each of the players what they will
do separately
and so if i believe what some player
will do then this is
some distribution over their mixed
strategies
so then we have
sort of these two of those deltas within
each other because it's a distribution
over the set of
mixed strategies
which are themselves a distribution over
the set of pure strategies
so here's an example we could have
two
mixed strategies for each player
so let's say player 1 plays 50 50 or
they play 25 75
and then my beliefs could be okay player
one plays this mixed strategy profile
with 50 probability and this one with 50
probability
and this would be an example
of a
of my beliefs about what player 1 will
do
now conjecture consists of
beliefs about what each other player
would do
so it's again a vector
where in each component
we have beliefs about
the behavior of another player
so it's a vector where for each other
player
we have one of these beliefs
and this explains the notation of why
this is the set of all conjectures
and again it's smaller than the set of
all distributions
over mixed
strategy profiles so it's not a valid
conjecture for me to believe that both
of those mixed strategy profiles
but only those will be realized and
again they will be both realized with 50
50 because what that would imply is that
the two players coordinate
if i believe that only these two are
possible then they believe that whenever
player 1
mixes 50 50 player 2 mixes 50 50 as well
and whenever player 1 mixes 25 75 then
player 2 mixes 40 60.
but this is a static game where players
interact only once there's no
communication between
players one and two
so they don't have a way to to
coordinate
that they're mixing with each other
so that's why
those are not
valid conjectures and the conjectures
are only the smaller set here
i hope this made the notation a little
bit clearer um
yeah that this this big cross here just
means it's a vector where each component
comes from um this set here for
that specific player
are there any questions so far
now
i did get a few questions of
how will the mixed strategy be
implemented in reality um
how do we randomize among our actions
and
this is just going to be additional
information not
not really exam relevant so you see here
the
light color scheme
so suppose we are at the
rock paper scissors game and we want to
play rock with 50 and play paper with 50
now one way how we could do that is we
could flip a coin
and we could say okay
if the coin comes out head we play rock
and if the coin comes out tails we play
paper
and we would do that in secret so that
our opponent doesn't know whether we
play rock or paper
that's one way how we could implement it
now
what matters here
because mixing is done independently of
the players what matters is only
the relative frequency with which the
two actions are chosen it does not
matter whether i flip a coin or whether
i roll a dice and choose rock when it's
even and
paper when it's odd um so that's why
typically we don't even model how
how players realize their mixed actions
they have some
called a mixing device that we use to
randomize between the actions but what
is important that we choose the
distribution with which we want the
outcomes to be realized
an example where mixing is used in real
life so
in
in rock paper scissors we wouldn't
really flip a coin what we probably try
to do is we try to estimate in our head
that we have some kind of distribution
that we follow if we play it ten times
then maybe we will play
paper three times rock four times
scissors three times and
in some
pseudo-random fashion
now
when
rock paper scissors is played for for
high stakes
people would
pay more attention to how they're
randomized to make sure that the
opponents can't guess how they randomize
and one game where people play for very
high stakes is poker
and
in poker um
it's important that the opponent doesn't
know
our cards so it's important that let's
say whenever we have two aces in the
beginning which is the best hand that we
can have
that we don't always act in the exact
same way
otherwise they would be able to get some
information from that
now we will see later as we move on in
the class more about why this is the
case
but for today let's suppose that we want
to play two aces
in five out of six cases
now how would professional pokers
randomize this well
are four suits and so there are six
combinations
of suits that we can have our aces
and then we can just say okay at the
beginning of the poker session i say
okay if i have a pocket pair and i wanna
raise with five six probability then i
will
raise if and only if the suits aren't
both black
and
so what this means is that our mixing
device is simply the dealer shuffling so
there's already randomness in the game
and we can use
that
to realize our mixed actions
now as i've said this is additional
information that is simply for you to
understand
how would we choose a mixed action
reality
this entire procedure is not not
relevant for assignments or exams
beyond understanding
what a mixed action is
now to the formal notation
um
so this is the formal definition of
iterated strict dominance and
it looks like quite a handful so let me
go again through all of these three
points step by step
so the first point means we start with
the set of all pure strategy profiles ah
sorry yep your strategy profiles
and then
in each step
we eliminate those
that are strictly dominated so this
means that we keep those
so all those strategy strategies that
have not been eliminated yet
we keep them
if they're not strictly dominated
so this means we eliminate
those that are strictly dominated
then
what the second condition means
is that
we keep doing this we look at the limit
as
we as k goes to infinity as we do this
over and over again
so we repeat it until the process
converges
and the reason why we have an
intersection here is because
limits
in with set valued maps is not
necessarily well defined so
the intersection is and so we can use
the intersection
because the set of strategies that were
not eliminated will get smaller and
smaller
so if we want to look at the limit um we
use formally we use the intersection
symbol but the interpretation is really
this is the limit of this set of
strategy profiles that gets smaller and
smaller
and then lastly at the very end once we
know which pure strategies survive yes
yes
then we find the undominated mixed
strategies
so we check which mixed strategies
supported on those
pure strategies
are not strictly dominated and then this
is the solution to iesds
now
this is
sort of the simplest way how we can
formalize
iterated strict dominance and if we open
up any textbook that has a definition of
it a formal definition not just in words
it will be something like this
why do we do this well
we've seen that
or i guess in the first assignment
you will see
this example where
um
a strategy is not necessarily a best
response to a valid conjecture even if
it survives iests
now
what does that mean formally well we
want to
or what does this mean for for a
researcher we want to write down ies yes
formally and then see what which part we
need to fix
to get rid of the problem
and then we arrive at rationalizability
so the idea is again
a similar procedure
but
instead in each step instead of
eliminating some strategies that are
clearly suboptimal we want to keep those
that can be optimal
for some
conjectures over the remaining profiles
of the opponents
but the interpretation is again the same
so we start with the sort of all mixed
strategies and then we eliminate
all those that cannot be
that are never a best response
then again we take the limit and we
repeat it until the process converges
and once it does we have found a set of
all rationalizable strategies
so the process is
different in the sense that
in theory here we look at all mixed
strategies in each step whereas in
ies yes we only eliminate
or we only look at mixed strategies at
the end
also another difference here is that we
always have to justify
the behavior
of why something could be optimal
whereas in aescs we simply say ah this
is clearly suboptimal
now why do we consider conjectures and
we've had this example here
where
all of the pure strat so in the first
round of elimination we eliminate d
because it's strictly dominated by c
but all the other pure strategies remain
because they are best responses to some
valid
conjecture so
b t and m were best responses to a b and
the mixture between a and b
and
for
player two
a b and c are best responses to
two t b and m
now the mixed strategy itself
is actually not
a rational or it's not the best response
to any conjecture because
it's strictly dominated by c
right if we mix a and b then we get one
point five zero one point five which is
strictly dominated by c
now we may wonder well will we will we
eliminate n because c has
um
only will we eliminate m because this
mixture here has been eliminated
and the answer is no because there is
still a valid conjecture
to which m can be a best response
if we play both a and b
with 50 likelihood then
m is the best response
and this is a valid conjecture because
both a and b can be justified
if
player 2 believes that player 1 will
play t or b respectively
now how is that conjecture here
different from the mixed strategy um
not
all too much um
so the best responses to this mixed
strategy are exactly the best responses
to this conjecture
um
and the reason is that
the payoffs are determined by the pure
strategies and then we aggregate them
equally and this is the case in both of
them the difference is
sort of this is
behavior by player two and it cannot be
optimal whereas this is
sort of
conjectured behavior
um
is okay they could play a with 50
likelihood or b with 50 likelihood
or let's look at an example and this is
one of the examples that you solved in
the questions on paul everywhere so i
figured we discussed the solutions to
this one anyway so let's
let's do this one as an example
and the question is which strategies are
rationalizable
and our first instinct should be well
it's a two-player game so we will look
at
ie sds
so if we look at
these payoffs then we see that okay r
is not dominated because it's better
than l if player one plays t
then
um
we see that also for player one
um no pure strategy is strictly
dominated by another pure strategy
but it turns out that one pure strive is
just dominated by a mixed strategy how
can we
how can we find out um
so one way that we have seen is that we
could draw
um
player one's
payoff rows
and then see which one is strictly
dominated so let's uh try to do that
here
so whoops
um here
so let's say
if we play t then we'll get payoffs five
and one so let's say
maybe
so here we have five and one
five and one
then we have three and two so that would
be maybe somewhere
here
and then we have two and four maybe
somewhere here
and then we see
that
m will be dominated by a mixture
of five and one
so this is one way how we can do it we
can draw it
or if you're not one for drawing much
then
um
then we can try to see numerically
whether
you know a mixture of two of them will
be better than the third and so
typically
because
um
the best response here requires that
or it's strictly dominated for all the
other strategy profiles
of the opponents
it means that
row payoffs where the sum is the lowest
are the ones that are most likely to be
dominated
so here if we look at this one we see
that m only gives us five pair of units
whereas t and b give us
six total payoff units
[Music]
in total
so this means that
t and b will be further to the top right
in a sense than
m so we can use this heuristic to see
okay
most likely m is going to be dominated
so let's try to see
for which mixture um
3 is lower than 5 and 2 and we see that
okay if we mix 50 50
then we'll get 3.5 and this works if
player 2 plays l
and then we can see that oh the 50 50
mixture actually also works for r
so 1 plus 4 50 50 would give us 2.5
so we see that
[Music]
so
we see that um a 50 50 mixture of tnb
dominates m
and
nope
and so n is dominated and if m is
dominated then now we see that r
is strictly better than l
and then
b is strictly better than t
so the unique outcome here of iescs or
rationalizability for that matter is br
so this is
one of the
typical examples that we can encounter
and this is one for
finitely many strategies
then another type of example that we
could encounter is we have
a continuum of possible strategies
and
such an example would be the case of the
cournot
and this is the same the same numbers
that we've seen in class and the only
change that i made is that
players can choose very very large
quantities
um
and let's solve this example as if we
had if we hadn't any knowledge about
ascs or rationality
from the class what was the the easiest
way that we could
try to solve this
so
intuitively i think most of us would try
to find
best responses so most of us would lean
towards
rationalizability rather than
eliminating strictly dominated
strategies because we know how to find
best responses essentially by taking the
first derivative setting it equal to
zero and making sure that it is a local
maximum
so the idea is here that
finding best responses is actually
simpler than showing
that a strategy is dominated
but it's only simpler if we can restrict
attention to
to these simple conjectures to these
there are conjectures on pure strategies
which is precisely
what we can do if theorem 1.11 applies
and we check that the conditions are met
there are four conditions
that the set of available actions for
each player is bounded is a closed
bounded interval that's
satisfied
that the utility function is
continuously differentiable
so here it's a polynomial and any
polynomial can be
infinitely many times
be differentiated continuously
then it's strictly concave in q i so the
second derivative here um will be -2
which is negative and then it's monotone
in
the other players quantity so our payoff
is always lower the more
the other company produces because this
will lead to a lower price
so all the conditions are satisfied and
so
we only have to worry about these
very simple beliefs that our opponents
will play a pure strategy with
probability one
okay now
once we restrict attention to these very
simple beliefs
how should we respond
and so here is where we use the
extreme value theorem um
that we say okay if we have some kind of
continuous function
so this is not the payoff function of of
the duopoly this is just an arbitrary
graph
where could it be maximized well it
could be maximized where the derivative
is zero
it could be maximized at a boundary
point
and we see that it can also be maximized
where
it's not differentiable
so wherever there's a kink it's possible
that we have a maximum without the
derivative ever being zero
right because to the left the derivative
is positive and to the right the
derivative is negative
now we could ask the same question about
where is the minimum of this function
here again by the extreme value theorem
it tells us it's either where the
derivative is zero so that would be here
or at a boundary point or
at where it's not differentiable and so
it's important that
there's only one of these it's not
always
where the derivative is zero it's just
one of these three cases
so if we look for the minimum the global
minimum is here
and the derivative is actually positive
here
right so the
payoffs decrease the closer we get to
the boundary and the only reason why the
minimum is at the boundaries because we
can't choose anything lower
so three possible cases
it's not differentiable the derivative
is zero or it's the boundary point
now going back to the cournot example
we know that the utility function is
differentiable so there so you don't
have to worry about this third case here
but it could still be either
an interior point where the derivative
is zero or a boundary point
now let's distinguish both cases let's
first assume that it's an interior point
then we know
the derivative has to be zero
so we compute the derivative we set it
equal to zero which we can then solve
for q1
now
this
is not yet
from one's best response we only know
that if the best response
is in the interior it takes this form
well actually we first have to verify
that it is a maximum
so we verify that it is a local maximum
and we do this with the second order
condition so
if the function is locally concave if
the second derivative is negative
then this point here will be a local
maximum
so why
is this this this condition
uh sufficient here well it tells us that
the first derivative right is the the
slope
so the second derivative means how
how is the slope
increasing or decreasing
and if the slope is decreasing this
means that
at this point here the slope changes
from being
positive to negative
so it sort of means that it's curved
towards
curve downwards
right because the slope keeps getting
lower and lower
whereas if the second condition was
positive then this is actually a minimum
and we don't ever want to find
worse responses in game theory so we
always have to make sure that it is a
maximum
so this is for an interior point
at the boundary point when could the
boundary point be optimal
well for zero we always get zero
and
the only way how this is the best
response is if um
player 2 chooses
a very large quantity
if firm 2 chooses more than 90
then q1 hat here
is even outside the set of allowed
strategies right we cannot choose a
negative quantity we cannot produce a
negative quantity
and if we plot the payoff function
the payoffs that we get
if
player 2 chooses q2 then we'll get
strictly negative payoffs because if
firm 2 chooses more than 90 then the
price will always be negative and so
producing anything will result in a loss
and so just be a decreasing function
that is maximized at zero
so we see that in the end
the best response is either zero
if firm 2 produces more than 90
or is given by this expression here if
firm 2 produces less than 19.
so in summary our best response is of
this form so
plus here means it's the maximum between
this quantity and zero
and if we plot the graph of our best
responses
then it takes this shape here
so
our best response is positive for
anything up to
90 and then after that our best response
is zero
now what
what does this mean what
pure strategies of us can be best
responses which pure strategies are
justifiable
or anything
in the range here
so if we plug in
all possible values for q2 then we'll
get all possible best responses
and because it's monotonic we can do
that by plugging in the lowest and the
highest value of q2
and so this means that
instead of all
strategies
that are consistent with rationality so
r1
is
anything between 0 and 45.
and then we can keep doing that
where we adjust here the maximum and the
minimum um
to lie within the set of admissible
strategies
we keep doing it and get an iterative
procedure that converges to
the solution that we know to be 30 and
30.
good so these
are the two types of questions that
we can solve with um rationalizability
so
if there's finitely many strategies
then
if it's a two-player game we just use
iesdf
and if there's a continuum of actions
then
i think personally it's easier to find
um the best responses so we use theorem
1.11 so that we only have to find
pure strategy best responses to these
very simple beliefs that our opponent
will play a pure strategy with
probability one
good any questions so far
then
this is this was my prepared um
prepared summary or explanation to the
questions you asked ahead of time so
typically i will check tuesday night the
questions that are already on paul
everywhere and then i'll respond to
those um
by preparing something and to the other
questions i'll simply respond
in the class
so let's go to
poll everywhere
and go through these questions
so if two players know that they are
both rational and they know that both
know that they are rational the
rationality of the players is common
knowledge
the answer is
so this is false
so this means is second order knowledge
right
they know
and
wait they know first order knowledge
then they know that they both know that
second order knowledge but common
knowledge
is really reserved for infinite order
knowledge so we can carry out this
procedure
until the process converges
so
in this example here if we only have
second order knowledge then we will stop
at 22.5
to 45
whereas if we have common knowledge then
we get all the way to the result which
was 30 and 30.
it is easier to predict the outcome of a
cournot oligopoly than a rock paper
scissor game well very good this is true
because
we have seen now that there is a
uniquely rationalizable strategy
so we only need common knowledge of
rationality to get a unique prediction
and
theorem 1.11 can actually be applied to
more general settings of the kernel game
um where we have concave price functions
and things like that and so in quite a
lot of generality there's a unique
rationalizable outcome whereas in the
rock paper scissors game
anything is rationalizable and so it's
harder to predict the outcome in rock
paper scissors
a weekly dominant strategy equilibrium
is unique
well let's look at
the definition of weak dominance
so
oops
so here um
if strategy is
weakly dominated if
it is um
never better but it's strictly worse for
some strategy profile of everybody else
now
i didn't define here what the weekly
dominant strategy equilibrium would be
like but if we assume that
it would involve
the strategy that weekly dominates
every other strategy
then it means that
two of them
so that
it would have to be unique
we can see this by
by
supposing that if there are two
so if
there
are
sigma
say
i
one
and sigma i2
then
this condition here would imply
i1
small or equal to ui
sigma i2
but it has to hold in both directions so
it would mean that they're equal always
but then
this cannot hold for either of them
but it has to hold that we have strict
inequality for some so if it's equal for
both of them
then
then sigma 1 cannot weaker dominate
sigma 2.
but if
weak dominance if we drop this
requirement here
then
then they wouldn't be unique
and like i mentioned in grad school it's
more important about how we argue rather
than the outcome so depending on how we
define the weakly dominant strategic
equilibrium we will get one result or
the other
but it's important that you know the the
cognitive steps how we arrive at the
solution are correct for a definition
that we had in mind for weak dominance
then
a weekly dominant strategy equilibrium
is robust the answer is no
because we have here this weak
inequality
and
if we have a strategy that is
yields the same outcome as some other
strategy profile
as some other strategy then
in an epsilon perturbation it might
yield a lower
utility so let's say we have um
let's say we have
uh two strategies and one yields um
one
and the other one also yields one so
this is the equilibrium here the
equilibrium this is some alternative
strategy
for sum
[Music]
then we can have an epsilon perturbation
of the game
in which we have
this is one minus epsilon and this is
so this would mean that
sigma i here is not
weakly dominant in the approximation
because it actually yields a smaller
payoff than some other strategy
[Music]
then
so here the correct answer is false
and the outcome of a strict dominant
strategy equilibrium is pareto efficient
the answer is no
it's not so this is false um
so if we go to
the
doping example
then we see that
the strict dominant strategy equilibrium
makes the prediction that both
athletes will use doping
which is not very deficient because it's
worse than
nobody doping
so
we have here pareto dominance to rule
out
dominated strategies um
or to find dominated strategies that are
dominated by mixed strategies but those
are not
the payoffs of both players right those
are only the payoffs of player one
so even though we used
no parental efficiency to kind of arrive
at the solution the solution
because particular efficiency here was
only for player 1 or for each player
individually
the result does not have to be very
deficient in the entire game
and what outcomes are consistent with
rationality of both firms in the corner
example we just derived it it's 0 45.
so for this one here we need knowledge
of rationality
oh
i chose word cloud as
as the
way the answers would be presented
um which makes quite of a mess if people
write sentences but we can still see b
and r was the most frequently chosen
responses which is the correct response
right this is the example that we just
solved
then
if there are finitely many or n
um pure strategies the set of
conjectures is the following
and
that's not correct this is either the
set of pure strategy conjectures or
equivalently the set of mixed strategies
um
but instead of all conjectures is
the set of distributions over all these
um
yeah as we've defined
uh at the beginning of of this class
so this is false
then
strategy profiles consistency with
player knowing that every player is
rational are precisely those in r2 that
is correct so r1 means
rational r2
knowledge of rationality r3
second order knowledge of rationality
and so rk is k minus first order
knowledge of rationality
for two player games the isds procedure
coincides with the procedure for
rationalizable strategies
the result is the same
that's the result of theorem 1.10 but i
would say
the procedure is not right the procedure
is that
we eliminate dominated strategies in
iescs
but for rationalizable
we check that all the strategies are
supported by some conjectures
and
the procedure is more complicated for
rationalizable strategies which is why
this result that they are the same in
two-player games is so useful because it
means we can use the simpler procedure
to get the same result
then a chance for us to look at the
proof of this result
is this question here so suppose that
each player's payoff depends only on his
or her own action
and the action of one other player then
instead of rationalizable strategies
coincides with the set of strategies
that survive by sds
this is correct and i'm pleasantly
surprised how large the number of
correct answers is here because we have
to go into the proof of the result to
see why this is true
so if we go here into the proof
so here was to prove where does the
proof fail in multiplayer games
and
we had that
so in the proof we constructed these
conjectures based on
based on um
instead of all
sort of the convex hull of all the
payoff rows for player one and
now if player one's payoff
depends only on one other player's
actions
then
essentially we can again look at
something two-dimensional like this here
because all the other players don't
matter
in that case we only get
a conjecture
of two strategy profiles that differ
only by player one strategy which is or
by one player strategy which is a valid
conjecture
and so we see why it's nice to have a
proof because even in situations where
the result does not directly apply we
can go into the proof and see would it
still work
and the answer in this case is yes
it works because
relevant
for the proof here was that
um
that
any essentially any two
extremal
um
payoffs here in this convex hull
differ only by the strategy of one
opponent
this is always satisfied in two player
games but also under this condition here
[Music]
and then lastly
any solution concept that is consistent
with common knowledge of rationality
must yield a subset of rationalizable
strategies and this is correct
um
yeah rationalizability tells us
everything that is consistent with it
and so if a solution concept tells us a
subset of it then it's still consistent
with common knowledge of rationality
good
are there any other questions
so i figured out how to open the chat
window next to zoom so you can also type
the questions in the chat
can provide an example that um the the
procedure of uh iewds is
not immune to to the order of indonesian
i can find an example in a textbook for
you i don't know one by heart
but
i can either have minifum show it in the
ta session or i can give you a reference
to a textbook
so jj was asking can you repeat the
answer again too fast which answer
all
well so
so
the class is recorded so if it's too
fast you can always go back to the
videos afterwards and see the
explanation again
um
but
let me go here through the answers one
more time
so
if two players know that they are both
rational and they know that both know
that they are rational then rationality
is not common knowledge so this is false
the reason is that common knowledge is
reserved
for
infinite order knowledge
whereas
knowing
that everybody knows that irrational is
second order knowledge
is that all right jj
okay
then
it is easier to predict the outcome of a
kernel oligopoly than a rock paper
scissor game and so here the crucial
part of the question is what does it
mean to be easier to predict
and this means less stringent assumption
on
the player's knowledge or
a
smaller set of strategies that survives
rationalizability
and rock paper scissor might be easier
to model
than the canon oligopoly but once we
have it modeled we have seen that no
strategy can be eliminated
um
and this is by design i mean if
if there was one strategy that was
always dominated then nobody would ever
pick let's say rock if rock could never
win
and but each strategy has a chance to
so
no strategies are dominated hence
all the
strategies are
survive
iscs or rationalizable elimination
whereas in cournot we have seen that
there's a unique strategy that survives
and so we get a unique prediction
does that make sense jj
good
then a weekly dominant strategy
equilibrium is unique
um
and the answer was
no
um or it depends on your definition of
what weekly dominant means
um different
fields use different
um definitions um
the one that i gave is from decision
theory where we want that
that
a strategy is weakly dominated if it is
never better
than some other strategy
but it's also strictly worse sometimes
right so this condition here that it
holds with strict inequality for some
strategy profile of player i's opponents
means
that
sometimes if all my opponents happen to
play exactly this
then i'll do strictly worse than
choosing the dominant one
then we defined a strict dominant
strategy equilibrium
as
everybody playing a strictly dominant
strategy
now here if we define a weekly dominant
strategy equilibrium
one possible definition would be to say
okay
everybody chooses a strategy
that weakly dominates every other
strategy
and if it weekly dominates every other
then
this implies uniqueness
why so what i had here before written
down was that
so let's say here in this inequality
both sigma i and sigma i prime
are a weakly dominant strategy
equilibrium
then this means that
we have to have this inequality
as well as the inequality in the other
direction because both sigma i prime and
sigma i
dominate each other
this means they have to yield the same
utility for all possible strategy
profiles chosen by ice opponents
and then this has to violate this last
condition
because if they yield the same utility
it's not possible
that
one of them also yields a larger utility
for one specific
strategy of the others
does that make sense
then robustness
does not hold because
if we have equality if we change one
side slightly
then
then the inequality won't hold anymore
so like you mentioned if we have here
one small or equal to one
then we can change the payoff slightly
to one plus epsilon where this is no
longer true
so it is not robust
then
does that make sense
then the outcome of a strict dominant
strategy equilibrium is territo
efficient
now okay what is pareto efficiency um
let's
go here so pareto efficiency means
so i pay a factor or i guess a ai
outcome
a is pretty efficient if
um
let's say
actually
all right so
to strategy
as is perito dominated
y
s prime so i guess this is strategy
profile
if
so we have
um
the payoffs in s prime
[Music]
are larger or equal
than in s for any player
and
there is one player
for which u i s prime is strictly better
that would be the definition of
predominated then pareto efficient is
if it's not
dominated by anything else
now
to answer this question here
all we need to see is
is there one sided profile that is
strictly better
so we can
so all we need to see is one counter
example
and the counter example here was
whether the athletes should dope because
the outcome of the strict dominant
strategy equilibrium is that they both
choose to dope
which is pretty dominated by not opening
right because the payoffs here are
higher for both players so it cannot be
parado efficient
does that make sense
good then
what outcomes are consistent with the
rationality of both firms in the current
example
so rationality means r1 and we've
computed r1 in an earlier example in
this in this video and
it is 0 45.
right it's all those strategies
that we know
is a best response to some conjecture
even if we don't know anything about the
other player's rationality
in which strategy profile survive iests
in the game to the right so this was
this was this
this example here
and here again you can rewatch the video
how we arrived at bottom right
and we iteratively eliminate these
strategies
then here
what is this here what is the set this
set of distributions over s i
so this is either the set of mixed
strategies or the set of fewer strategic
injectors
but it's not the set of all mixed
strategy conjectures
because that is a much larger set so the
set of conjectures is
you know sort of the set of
distributions over all this set
so very large set
and typically we don't want to work with
it that is why we have these two
theorems that help us simplify the
procedure of rationalizability
[Music]
then
yeah r1 is rationality r2 is knowledge
of rationality because
the players
if they know that their opponent is
rational they know they will only play
something from r1
which means that now we best respond by
something in r2
yeah
the procedure is different but the
result is the same
and
here for this one we again look at the
proof
of
[Music]
of the result
and we have seen that
a strategy is undominated
if if we look at this set of payoff rows
if its payoff row is
on the efficient frontier
and we have used this to construct a
conjecture to which it is the best
response to and the conjecture was
dependent on this normal vector to this
convex set
so
because
v1 here is on the efficient frontier it
lies above any other payoff row v
within the set if we measure it in the
direction n
so no matter which point we have
so let's say we have some point v inside
here
then
this
direct product here
is this distance
and this distance will always be
positive or non-negative for any v in
the set
because this lies on the boundary
into this direction
and because the normal vector has all
non-negative entries we can rescale
the normal vector to such that it is a
valid conjecture
and
what this conjecture here means now is
that it weights
both of those strategy profiles of the
other players opponents and gives them
some probability based on n1 and n2
and
for this to be a valid conjecture it
must mean that those two
strategy profiles differ only by
the strategies of one player
[Music]
and this holds if we have a two-player
game like here or
if
play one's payoffs depend only on the
strategies of one other opponent
and so we see why it's so useful to have
proofs because even when it does not
apply
the result does not apply we can
we can
see whether it still holds true
does that make sense jj
so
next time
if i go too fast just send a message
earlier it's more efficient for
everybody if we just
you know
if it's clear in the first in the first
explanation
and the reason why the videos are
recorded as well is that you can go over
the explanations again
if something wasn't clear
are there any other questions that i
haven't addressed yet
now i want to emphasize i don't mind
explaining something again right it's
just if you say explain everything again
then
there would be a more efficient solution
in slowing me down earlier if you have a
very targeted question then of course
i'm happy to reply to that
all right if there are no other
questions then
this would be the end of the class
and
um good luck in your is it a macro
midterm that you have
afterwards
the first assignment is online
um
three questions
for next
tuesday at midnight
so typically the rhythm will be i hand
them out on wednesday during class and
then you have until
tuesday night
one week to solve it
and
make sure to look at the questions
before the ta session so you can ask me
in front
in
in the ta session and i do have office
hours on monday at 4 30. so if you've
worked on it over the weekend
and
you still have questions after that you
can come to my office on monday
afternoon to ask questions about the
assignment there
good
i'll post those recordings on the class
website and
the
lecture videos for next week will be
available sometime
or
sometime on thursday typically
all right that's it um
good luck in your exam